# Participants

- Marcin Hoppe (Auth0)
- Crystal Hazen (HackerOne)
- Alex Rice (HackerOne)
- Ben Willis (HackerOne)
- Jason Keirstead (IBM Security)
- Pete Allor (Red Hat)
- Josh Bressers (Elastic)
- CRob (Red Hat)
- Reed Loden (HackerOne)
- Morten Linderud (Arch Linux)
- Gilles Gravier (Wipro)
- Dan Lorenc (Google)
- Claudio Criscione (Google)
- Matthew Dressman (Microsoft)

# Agenda & notes

## Video recording

<https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WfuMoBqj-WbcCYF-U8cIZue4CGay7Qf7/view?usp=sharing>

## Meeting minutes

- New members nominations:
  - @gravax (#11)
  - @joshbressers (#12)
  - @RedHatCRob (#13)
  - @Foxboron (#14)
  - @mdressman (#15)
- Working group governance topics:
  - Co-pilot
    - If thereâ€™s anybody who would like to step up, reach out to Marcin
    - Several folks reached out after the meeting. Thank you!
  - Issue and label management
    - Marcin to submit a proposal over the next week or two
  - Working group charter
    - Work with Dan on how this should look like
    - We likely need to reevaluate goals and objectives for the WG
  - Are GitHub discussions working?
  - Working group meetings
    - Marcin to start discussion on timing and frequency
    - Marcin to add WG meetings to OpenSSF community calendar
    - Set up recording and streaming
- Overview of the disclosure process in the Ruby ecosystem (Reed)
  - Reed gave an overview of <https://github.com/rubysec/ruby-advisory-db>
    - Question: should we recommend OSS projects or communities to become CNAs?
  - Maintained by (mostly) Reed today
    - Question: could OpenSSF or Linux Foundation be the steward of such vulnerability databases?

# Action items

- [x] @MarcinHoppe to reach out to people who volunteered for the co-pilot role
- [ ] @MarcinHoppe to start discussions about:
  - Meeting frequency and time to accommodate different timezones
  - Should we recommend OSS projects or communities to become CNAs?
  - Could OpenSSF or LF become a steward of OSS vulnerability database(s)?
- [x] @MarcinHoppe to set up WG meetings on the OpenSSF community calendar
- [x] @MarcinHoppe to figure out video conferencing and streaming for future WG meetings
