# Participants

- Marcin Hoppe (Auth0)
- Crystal Hazen (HackerOne)
- CRob (Red Hat)
- Reed Loden (HackerOne)
- Morten Linderud (Arch Linux)
- Matthew Dressman (Microsoft)
- Rhys Arkins (WhiteSource)
- Martin Prpic (Red Hat)
- Matt Wilson (GitLab)
- Nicole Schwartz (GitLab)
- Art Manion (CERT/CC)
- Casey Ellis (Bugcrowd)

# Agenda

- Jason Keirstead: Continue discussion about "scenario 2" from the slide deck we discussed in the last meeting
- Vulnerability disclosures whitepaper (#88)

## Video recording

YouTube recording: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CzdY3OeF4hQ>

## Meeting minutes

- Nicole: Anyone else stuck in the waiting room? (apparently email link doesn't work, but calendar one does)
  - The new link is: <https://zoom.us/j/93780393562?pwd=ZzNmYjg4Y1JHREtWNnNCUUZIVXlKZz09>
    - Marcin: Sorry for the hassle!
- Jason did not attend, decided to postpone the discussion about “scenario 2” from the deck presented in the previous meeting.
- Whitepaper -
  - We started discussing the personas, the pain points, it was unclear what kind of deliverables could help with those pain points
  - It is not easy to find the things we discuss in this group in once central place
  - Documentation of identified problems and resources
  - More a KB in a suitable format than specifically a whitepaper
  - Nicole: perhaps a PDF WP for maintainers b/c we have a more cohesive story for them, and a resource guide (website page) for all personas that is just that resources for all personas
  - CRob: can feed into other groups and cross-pollinate between groups “hey developers are you going to write code, here is some resources for secure coding” so they can at least understand the aspect of taking in vuln reports
    - Will talk to Wade and work on a reusable list of topics to go in the resource guide and maybe whitepaper
  - CRob & Crystal Hazen (?) raised hands to start this off
    - Marcin will try and help
    - Reed Loden would be happy to review/edit. Matt Wilson can as well.
  - Perhaps a new repository should be spun off for the table of contents
  - Marcin can contact/ask for some budget for graphics people on staff
  - If no one grabs it Nicole will correlate personas - pain points - resource guides markdown (the g-docs need to be put into markdown)
  - Nicole: IoD VDP suggestions we hand out to manufacturers - <https://internetofdon.gs/vendor-best-practices/> would love to do a whitepaper PDF instead
    - FIRST TPC WG (Third Party Components Working Group) can take whitepaper and promote within industry as good practice as well.
- New peep - Casey Ellis (Bugcrowd) intro - also started disclose.io open source policy project
  - From chat <https://github.com/disclose/diodb> “this part of disclose.io is particularly great” - way for researchers to look up vendor contacts and disclosure policies, with specific call out for safe harbor
  - <https://disclose.io/>
  - <https://github.com/disclose>
- Points out clarity is important and do people understand the difference between bug bounty and VDP?

## Action items

- [ ] @MarcinHoppe to create a repo to collaborate on the whitepaper
