<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

We have moved out meeting notes to an annually-regenerated rolling gdoc to ease finding and adding to our ongoing meeting journal.

2021 vulnerability Disclosure WG Meeting Notes - <https://docs.google.com/document/d/10_i0Krxdcq5AUWmdAbMDqvrKmxGSZCAFc15PKpE2j04/edit>#




# OpenSSF Vuln Disclosure WG Notes - 2021

**_Thanks to the WG for a GREAT 2021!  This document is closed for updates.  See [2022 Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzqhW9SK9QRA39fQz0RiAkvpRWB0xztt1TAFJEseTlA/edit#) for current group activities._**

**2022 WG Notes moved to this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mZEi6EvbH2mvn-gHOUIaysAjHlwJXjJdJ7gMlelSkVU/edit#heading=h.nyhcw2azogc)**


# 2021-11-29

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)



* [David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)<span style="text-decoration:underline;">)</span>
* [Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Ryan Haning (Microsoft)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)</span>
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Robert Clark (AWS)</span>
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Javier Leon (Google)</span>

Meeting Agenda



* New Friends intros
    * Javier Leon (Google) - new to Google, works on vulnerability coordination
    * Wietse Venema
    * Robert “Rob” Clark (AWS)
* Opens
* Proposal: Short “don’t be a jerk” article/document aimed at security researchers (at least)
    * This was originally from the “Security Threats WG”
    * EFF does have some legal guidelines about not extorting
    * Is there real data on this?
    * Rob Clark: Generally if you have the wherewithal to be a security researcher, you know better. Not sure that a document on misbehavior will fix it, lots of docs on coordinated disclosure. Instead of “don’t be a jerk”, focus on “what to do if you’re just getting into this” - especially for projects to point to.
    * Aeva Black: Generally agree with Robert’s point. Megaphone could help remind people that there are norms of behavior, references to EFF etc. I have seen a few examples of this, don’t think it’s unfounded. It’s a minority, not new.
    * David A. Wheeler: Could be short, 1-2 pages.
    * Rob Clark: Should address 3 points:
        * Remuneration “pay me for this”
        * Timeline “you need to patch this right now”
        * Validity “it’s really critical”
    * Arnaud: Even if it just pointed to existing documents, that’d be useful.
    * Wietse: TONE is very important in this document.
    * Aeva: Must give clear credit to other docs/organizations
    * Robert Clark: I could draft something within a week or two.
    * Notes from the Security Threats WG:
        * In the Security Threats WG an issue was raised. There are anecdotes that some security researchers are approaching OSS projects not in the spirit of helping, but as threats & demands. There are reports of folks being threatened, berated, insulted, etc. Some demands for money even when there is no bug bounty program (and often no money). Of course, there are reports from the other side, e.g. “I was strung along for 18 months, no bounty as promised, and told I couldn’t disclose either.”
        * Of course, anecdotes may be exceptions and not common. But there are other sources that suggest that some reporters are behaving badly & possibly crossing the line into extortion, e.g.:
        * https://www.dbta.com/BigDataQuarterly/Articles/Why-Organizations-Are-Ignoring-Vulnerability-Reports-And-How-to-Fix-the-Problem-141390.aspx
        * There may be value in a short article along the lines of "don't be a jerk" aimed at security researchers. Maybe another article could aimed at the vulnerability-receiving organization, or the same article aimed at both.
        * Longer discussion here in the Security Threats WG notes:
        * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AfI0S6VjBCO0ZkULCYZGHuzzW8TPqO3zYxRjzmKvUB4/edit#heading=h.yworp6sxzb6g
        * In particular, it might be good to do a survey/research to see if this is a real problem, and what its causes are. I suspect that there's a sequence of events. Many orgs don't care about security (they already got their money from the sale) & some orgs are tired of being swamped with low-quality security "reports", so they stop being responsive. Security researchers get frustrated from lack of responsiveness, & lash out in frustration. In the end, there are humans on both ends :-).
        * (Also called “beg bounty”)

Meeting Notes:



* Draft up guidance for vulnerability reporter
* OSS Guide - doesn’t handle when finder is on project
    * Next meeting should discuss
* 


# 20211115

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)



* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Leader: [Anne Bertucio (Google)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)</span>
* [David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)<span style="text-decoration:underline;">)</span>
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)</span>
* [Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)

Meeting Agenda



* New Friends intro
    * Arnaud Le Hors
        * OSSF Vuln CVD guide was proposed within Hyperledger Project
* Town Hall from 11/15
    * Town Hall went well, included a brief discussion about coordinated vulnerability disclosure guidebook.
* Opens
    * Board updates from LF Summit
        * All WGs put forward financial requests
        * If this WG wants to fund something substantial, will need TAC review and GB approval
    * Priorities for next year?
        * [annebertucio] More input from maintainers
        * [annebertucio] More education about VDPs vs bug bounties, which one(s) is right for you, and how to make the most of it
        * [dwheeler] Maybe not a priority for this specific group, but does end up affecting OSS: NVD infra challenges, the CVE reporting process (too difficult, friction vs potential payout)
        * [dwheeler] If I have a vulnerability in X, how do you know that Y is actually impacted by the transitive dependency X -- there is not good reporting there in a community-available way
            * JF: even if we had reporting, it’s difficult for triage teams to figure out the exploitability estimation -- this would be a very difficult research target
            * DW: agree, though we could subset it in some cases and make an assertion. Eg: widely-used library in HTML, but what if you don’t use the xml portion? Vuln in xml portion isn’t relevant to you. So while you can’t do it in all cases, you might be able to do enough to be hopeful.
        * [jenniferfernick] OSS projects don’t have maturity for receiving reports and triaging the way vendors have. OSS has less resources, less structure. There may not be a team or even the need for a team. Not best practices, not SLAs a vendor has, etc. What’s the minimum maturity? What’s the maturity process look like? Small, medium, large projects. 
            * Dwheeler: re CII, the number one thing identified was just how to report vulnerabilities. Inability to report. 
            * Search for “vulnerability” in [https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/criteria](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/criteria)
    * Hyperledger project 
        * All projects go through security audits
        * Each project is supposed to have a vulnerability report lead
        * 17 different projects, function fairly independently
        * Jfernick: Verification of OSS cryptography implementations; how does this work in hyperledger?
            * Arnaud: Has been an effort to create reference crypto libraries 
                * [Ursa project](https://www.hyperledger.org/use/ursa)
        * Annebertucio: Challenges and successes in security education?
            * Key management and certificate management
        * Annebertucio: How about the security audits? Were they useful, did the maintainers change behavior?
            * No
            * Ran a bug bounty program for a bit, no solid reports
    * FOSS Backstage panel CFP submission (due today!)

        Title: 


        Preparing for Zero-Day: Vulnerability Disclosure in Open Source Software  


        Speakers:


        Jennifer Fernick (SVP & Global Head of Research, NCC Group)


        Christopher (CRob) Robinson (Director of Security Communications, Intel)


        Anne Bertucio (Senior Program Manager, Open Source Security, Google) 


        Abstract: 


        Open source software is incredibly powerful - and while that power is often used for good, it can be weaponized when open-source projects contain software security flaws that attackers can use to compromise those systems, or even the entire software supply chains that those systems are a part of. The Open Source Security Foundation is an open, cross-industry group aimed at improving the security of the open source ecosystem. In this presentation, members of the OpenSSF Vulnerability Disclosure working group will be sharing with open-source maintainers advice on how to handle when researchers disclose vulnerabilities in your project’s codebase - and we’ll also take any questions you have about this often mysterious topic! 


        Part 1 of this presentation will give an overview of the basics of Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (CVD) for open-source software maintainers, including some basics about security vulnerabilities, how to communicate securely and write patches without leaking vulnerability information, what you can expect during a disclosure with a researcher, and how to handle challenging scenarios like when you can’t patch, when a vulnerability is already being exploited by a threat actor in the wild, or when a vulnerability impacts many downstream dependencies.


        Part 2 of this presentation will include a discussion about vulnerability disclosure best practices, pitfalls, and challenges. We will also welcome questions from the audience - ask us anything about dealing with vulnerabilities in open source!  
 
Presentation Outline:  
 
* Part 1: Overview of Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure for Open-Source Maintainers

1. What’s a vulnerability (and what isn’t)
2. What does it mean to “disclose” a vulnerability?
3. The workflow of vulnerability disclosure
* Types of disclosure and the philosophy behind coordinated disclosure

* Full disclosure (aka, “They dropped it on Twitter!”)
* Private disclosure
* Coordinated disclosure
* The coordinated disclosure process
*  How to set up CVD in an OSS project
*  how to communicate securely and write patches without leaking vulnerability information


* Part 2: Panel Discussion & AMA!

* Disclosure myth busting and Ask Me Anything
    * 1) Is it normal for someone to request a payment?
    * 2) What do I do if I receive a vulnerability report and don’t know how to patch it?
    * 3) What do I do if the report affects a major dependency of my project’s?
    * 4) What’s a zero day, and what does it mean if my project has one?
    * 5) What do I do if the reporter/researcher doesn’t agree to my timeline?
    * 6) What if I don’t think this is a vulnerability, but the researcher does? What if I have no intention to patch this?

* What's the difference between a bug bounty and CVD? Which one should my project use?
* What are zero days, and what do I do about them?
* What's the deal with NDAs?
* Process troubleshooting: What if the reporter doesn't agree with our timeline? What if the reporter is unresponsive?
* AMA!

* Backlog/Past To-do’s
    * Ask CERT for a demo of VINCE
    * Ask Board and New ED to come visit a meeting
    * Ask Alpha/Omega team to present to WG
    * Clean up [WG repo issues](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues) (many of these are done, woohoo!)


# 20211101

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)



* Leader:[ CRob (Intel)](https://github.com/SecurityCRob)
* [Anne Bertucio (Google)-](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* Deveeshree Nayak (University of Washington) 
* Sofia Reis (Univ. Lisbon/Facebook)
* Sergio Rojas

Meeting Agenda



* New friends intros
* Opens
    * [CRob] I’ll be on PTO Nov 15; seeking volunteer to lead call that day
        * @CRob - reach out to anne the end of next week with details
    * [Jennifer] we’ll be submitting a panel to FOSSbackstage 
* Desired next project(s) for WG
    * [https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/100](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/100)
        * Anne: Could we build on the GitHub survey/put out a follow up to see what “services” projects are missing during an incident or vuln response? (Eg “I feel very comfortable writing disclosure announcements, I do not feel confident in my ability to patch something related to networking”)
            * JF - suggests to leverage the Alpha/Omega phase0 to reach out to maintainers
        * Need to build roadmap for TAC & GB
    * Extending [VINCE ](https://www.kb.cert.org/vince/)(from CMU)
        * Get Art & team to do a demo “i am a maintainer, how do I use VINCE?”  what does workflow look like @ CROB
    * Vuln disclosure advocacy in OSS
        * Differences between BB & CVD
            * Project & maintainer engagement`
        * OSS event presence to educate about disclosure
            * Dedicate future call to start crafting talking points/topics
    * SECOM 
        * Guidelines for writing security commits? @CROB 4 WG materials - would we desire to endorse SECOM to evangelize to OSS devs/projects?
        * Reached out to OSV folks. They are interested.


# 20211008

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)



* **Leader**:[ CRob (Intel)](https://github.com/SecurityCRob)
* [Anne Bertucio (Google)-](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)<span style="text-decoration:underline;">) (first part)</span>
* [Eric Hatleback (CERT/CC)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* Sofia Reis (Univ. Lisbon/Facebook)
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)

Meeting Agenda



* New friends:
    * Daveeshree (she/her), Professor at University of Washington
    * Sofia Reis, PhD Student at the University of Lisbon
    * Jory Burson, PM for OpenSSF
* Feedback on CVE Call
* Opens
    * CIRT response for OSS?
        * Anne- talk to the community to find out what would be helpful to them?
        * Jennifer - how do we get access to security resources to projects that need them?
        * Next step: Please discuss here on this github issue :)  \
[https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/100](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/100) 
    * David & Jory: Quick note: Will be asking for ideas/suggestions for OpenSSF for next year (2022). Want to try to collect/collate ideas for the TAC & the upcoming new governing board, in particular what’s a priority (because we don’t have infinite resources)
        * [annebertucio] Not a budget or tactical suggestion, but would like to see stronger connections with OSS project cores and package owners, and incorporate their biggest needs into OSSF’s priorities
        * [annebertucio] Grants or vendor funds for projects to dig out of technical debt that causes security issues
        * [anne/jennifer/crob] Support for projects that have emergency issues without a disclosure plan/familiarity
            * [deveeshree] Includes educational component -- summaries/share outs post-disclosure so projects can learn from each other
    * SECOM: Convention for security commit messages
        * Details/Website: [https://tqrg.github.io/sec-commits/](https://tqrg.github.io/sec-commits/)
        * Survey: [https://forms.gle/YADhxoe7d4nqLHnQ8](https://forms.gle/YADhxoe7d4nqLHnQ8)
        * Presentation: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_UFPRDD9jvmlARxWshSu9WNV1ib_kCid/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_UFPRDD9jvmlARxWshSu9WNV1ib_kCid/view?usp=sharing)
        * E-mail: [sofiareis1994@gmail.com](mailto:sofiareis1994@gmail.com) // [sofia.o.reis@tecnico.ulisboa.pt](mailto:sofia.o.reis@tecnico.ulisboa.pt)
        * Guidelines for writing security commits? @CROB 4 WG materials - would we desire to endorse SECOM to evangelize to OSS devs/projects?


# 20211004

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)



* **Leader**:[ CRob (Intel)](https://github.com/SecurityCRob)
* [Anne Bertucio (Google)-](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)<span style="text-decoration:underline;">)</span>
* [Eric Hatleback (CERT/CC)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Paulo Flabiano Smorigo (Ubuntu/Canonical)](https://github.com/pfsmorigo)
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">John Naulty (Coinbase)</span>
* [Ryan Hanning (Microsoft)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Alexander (RoRo) Romero (Intel)</span>
* Jo Bazar (MITRE-CVE Program)
* Jonathan Evans (MITRE - CVE Program)
* 

Meeting Agenda



* CVE Program friends back to talk about next steps & tech specs
* 

Meeting Notes:



* CVE Program OSSF Session prt2
    * Publicly available free server that enables stakeholders to have a dictionary/common language to describe publicly known vulnerabilities
    * CNA - CVE Numbering Authorities - entities that issue CVes for components they have responsibility over
    *  CVE != CVSS (although CVSS is a data element that can be shared as part of a CVE record)
    * Elements like CPE, SWID, and others are part of the NVD, and are not directly part of the CVE program’s mandate
    * CVE ID/Record has 3 required elements - CVE Identifier, CVE description, and CVE reference (like to advisory/disclosure) 
    * Chandan shows new JSON5 format
        * CVE is in a unique position to capture additional data elements to share with stakeholders of the impacted component
        * [https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/blob/master/schema/v5.0/docs/versions.md](https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/blob/master/schema/v5.0/docs/versions.md) 
        * [https://cveproject.github.io/cve-schema/schema/v5.0/docs/mindmap.html](https://cveproject.github.io/cve-schema/schema/v5.0/docs/mindmap.html) 
        * [https://vulnogram.github.io/cve5/](https://vulnogram.github.io/cve5/) 
    * CVE quality working group is responsible for additions/management of the JSON schema
    * ADP - authorized data publishers is an upcoming addition to the program - have the ability to add similar information as a CNA to provide independent information about a vulnerability (allows an OSS Vendor to provide information about how a vulnerability affects THEIR version of the component)
        * CERT/CC currently is piloting this 
        * Future ADPs will need to have some vetting to be “authorized” to help ensure data quality
        * Kris B talked about new API & architecture
        * [https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-services](https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-services) 
        * Interested parties can work with the program to get an API key to test out API
        * [https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-services/blob/dev/docs/openapi.yml](https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-services/blob/dev/docs/openapi.yml) 
        * CVE program is a federated model with many CNAs and others contributing & managing their own orgs/materials
        * Using tools, it will be possible to get a CVE in a matter of seconds & be able to upload records to augment the data there
        * Martin P shared link to CLI client/lib: [https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/cvelib](https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/cvelib) 
            * Cli can be used to complement existing tools
            * Python library
        * Patches, comments, and collab welcome for all projects


<img width="733" alt="Screenshot 2023-12-22 at 9 36 59 AM" src="https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/assets/51727488/cd493cfc-c070-48f5-a83b-aa93551a8e82">

# 20210920

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)

* **Leader**:[ CRob (Intel)](https://github.com/SecurityCRob)
* [Anne Bertucio (Google)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Eric Hatleback (CERT/CC)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* [Ryan Hanning (Microsoft)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main)
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Alexander (RoRo) Romero (Intel)</span>
* 

Meeting Agenda



* Opens
* Final chance for comments on Vuln Disc Blog
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BPCcnaagTLht7vBk6q5AS_KxiGmLDj76uaZb3yg5_Ro/edit?resourcekey=0-JjkQMDZTT_RZ2buk6NTDhw](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BPCcnaagTLht7vBk6q5AS_KxiGmLDj76uaZb3yg5_Ro/edit?resourcekey=0-JjkQMDZTT_RZ2buk6NTDhw)
    * The actual doc here: [https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide) 
    * It doesn’t discuss OSV, just CVE. Should that be changed?
        * Issue: [https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide/issues/21](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide/issues/21)
        * Tag Abhishek Arya - Anne Bertucio will get the tagging going
    * How do we get blog up? Via GB? LF press team?
        * Speaking of press -- should we coordinate with LF press team in case there’s questions?
        * You can post on OpenSSF blog post, but need to ask governing board (they must vote to do that - electronic vote is easy)
* Has anyone reached out to CSA re: OSV project
    * Anne Bertucio will talk to Abhishek about who to ask
* Next projects for group?
    * @CRob talk to Xav/GH about their recent survey; would they come in and share with us?
    * Brad - sees lots of opportunity in assisting OSS devs; how can we do that?
    * Jennifer/Anne - how can we get feedback on the guide?  We should list that in it (pr/issue, mailing list, etc)
    * Anne - how to coach corps into good oss engagement
        * What does appropriate handling look like 
        * Coaching for corps - legal rules/ndas might not/.do not always apply
            * Enterprise “ownership”
        * How does bug bounty play in or get in the way?
        * FIRST is a potential partner is sharing recommendations with vendor community
        * Spheres of “need to know”
        * Personas - [https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main/docs/personas.md](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main/docs/personas.md) 
        * Pain Points Issue - [https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/80](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/80)
        * Whitepaper project - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ggvl7_p7-tmieP5He1dSmRbndDz1CG2_BqNpk6ss6ks/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ggvl7_p7-tmieP5He1dSmRbndDz1CG2_BqNpk6ss6ks/edit#)  ,  [https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/88](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/88) 
        * Provide scope/ethical guidance on do’s/do-nots
        * @CRob talk to Bug Bounty COI to see about co-meeting/collab possibilities - [https://www.bugbountycoi.org/](https://www.bugbountycoi.org/) 
    * Outreach - how, what, where, why?
        * @CRob - once conference list is assembled, share with this group
            * Anne can add in OSS-y conferences

Meeting Notes:

* CVE Team will be back to talk with us more on October 4th (mark your calendars!)

# 20210823

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)

* CRob [Intel]
* Anne Bertucio (Google)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Paulo Flabiano Smorigo (Ubuntu/Canonical)
* Michael Scovetta (Microsoft) 
* Eric Hatleback (CERT/CC)

Meeting Agenda

* Intro to new friends
* AR @ Team - Review OSS Vuln Coordination Guide & give feedback by August 30
    * Link - [https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide) 
    * Will be crafting blog for TAC/GB review to announce its publication
        * [Draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BPCcnaagTLht7vBk6q5AS_KxiGmLDj76uaZb3yg5_Ro/edit?resourcekey=0-JjkQMDZTT_RZ2buk6NTDhw) for edits/additions/feedback
    * Thoughts on a “structured” security.md idea: [https://github.com/ossf/wg-identifying-security-threats/issues/19](https://github.com/ossf/wg-identifying-security-threats/issues/19) (seems relevant to some of the other security.md templates, etc.), but not nearly ready yet.
    * AR @team - how can we start to evangelize this  more broadly
    * @CRob email TAC & talk tomorrow about guide & proposed blog
* Thoughts on CVE Program meeting
    * Next call we will talk about solutions & feedback with them (Sept6)
    * See about getting CSA in to talk about their new project (OSV)
* Next projects for group?
    * Revisit persona painpoints and draft solutions to address them?
    * Vuln reporting tool for OSS (VINCE?)
        * Emily @CERTCC continues to toil away on VINCE, no definitive plans yet
* Project Alpha-Omega - [Feedback most welcome](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u7Ps18dzu9M-HF7ZHTK6VB5jLaVJvnw6uq3o7qw5yGE/edit?usp=sharing) (especially on the private disclosure area).
    * Two new projects being proposed for OSSF to sponsor


# 20210809

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)



* CRob [Intel]
* Anne Bertucio (Google)
* Morten Linderud (Arch Linux)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group) 
* Abhishek Arya (Google)
* Russ Cox (Google)
* Eric Hatleback (CERT/CC)
* Michael Scovetta (Microsoft)

Meeting Agenda



* OSSF Vuln Disclosure Working group meets with members of the CVE Program
    * GOALS - to learn about the CVE Program, how it works, how to engage with it, and share OSS perspective on vuln handling, share thoughts, observations, concerns, suggestions
    * Katie Noble (CVE Board Member) began the presentation. Used to work for US Government; sponsored MITRE CVE program, NIST, CERT/CC, ICS CERT, Vulnerabilities Equities Process (VEP) [defensive side]
    * “Poo bag dispenser” - we make sure poo bags are available, but dispensers do not clean up after the dog
    * CVE - Not a reward, not a demand for a patch, and not a score (NIST does scoring)
    * 2006: Moved to federation. Goal: increased adoption, increased coverage
    * Currently 178 CNAs - they’re trying to recruit more CNAs
    * Fall 2021: New CVE website, “one stop shop”
    * Infrastructure: JSON 5.0
    * David A. Wheeler: Concerns:
        * Does not provide clear automated means to identify vulnerable components (CPEs & SWIDs don’t work)
    * Morten @Arch - how can an unpaid oss maintainer dispute a CVE submitted by a researcher?
    * Michael S - I'd love to understand whether there have been any estimates on the coverage of CVEs, especially for the long tail of smaller, less-well-known open source projects. E.g. Folks can just disclose via a GitHub issue, maintainer merges a PR, new release, and that's it.

# 20210726 - 

Attendees:

* Anne Bertucio
* David A. Wheeler
* Ryan Hanig
* Eric Hatleback
* Kim Lewandowski

Agenda:

* CVD guide
    * [dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org](mailto:dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org)added comments in [whitepaper doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ggvl7_p7-tmieP5He1dSmRbndDz1CG2_BqNpk6ss6ks/edit#) -- [Anne Bertucio](mailto:annebertucio@google.com)will address and incorporate into [GitHub repo](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide) -- will submit PR with David as reviewer
        * The final version will be the GitHub repo version
    * Other outstanding comments?
    * Sign offs:
        * How do we get to lazy consensus for a v1?
        * Would like to present it to the board for a vote as well
            * Can go to the TAC once group reaches consensus
            * Anne will coordinate with Ryan on TAC review date
* Goals:
    * #1: Complete the shorter GitHub repo in 2-4 weeks (mid to end of August 2021), focusing on what OSS maintainers should do [https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide)
        * [David A. Wheeler](mailto:dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org): I’ll move my material from whitepaper over to repo
    * #2: Longer goal - complete whitepaper - larger scope - looking at multiple personas - complete end October 2021? Last meeting schedule:
        * [Optional -- recommend first draft of sections by Aug 4]
        * Paper sections ready for review Aug 18
        * Paper finalized Sept 1; sent for design layout
        * Draft of blog for paper launch reviewed Sept 7-10
        * Blog for paper launch finalized Sept 14
        * [optional LF media outreach Sept 16]
        * Published week of Sept 20
* Shared vulnerability [schema](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sylBGNooKtf220RHQn1I8pZRmqXZQADDQ_TOABrKTpA/edit#heading=h.ss425olznxo)
    * There is some related work, we don’t want to duplicate - e.g.:
    * OSV [https://osv.dev/](https://osv.dev/) 
    * The idea is to take OSV’s format, generalize it, & turn it into a spec.
    * There is CVE JSON format 5, but we need to clarify why that’s not enough.
        * Doesn’t solve all problems. In particular, cannot automatically connect the CVE to the software it applies to, which makes the CVEs mostly useless.
    * Who would provide data in this format?
        * PyPI, Go integrating it, probably a few others looking to adopt it.
    * DWF - replacing with Cloud Security Alliance, not clear if that is related here. [https://opensourcesecurity.io/2021/07/15/the-future-of-dwf/](https://opensourcesecurity.io/2021/07/15/the-future-of-dwf/)
    * OSV includes a version range
    * David A. Wheeler: I suggest that package URLs have a version range system, not clear where that status is.
    * Work to do: Move into a GitHub repository - Kim will do that & announce
    * FOR NEXT MEETING: Everyone else please take a look, & let’s discuss next steps (how to clarify / improve / vote / promulgate)
* Researchers Piergiorgio Ladisa and Henrik Plate are working on a taxonomy of attack vectors for OSS supply chain attacks. Plate is one of the authors of the "Backstabber's Knife Collection” paper.
    * They’d like people with supply chain knowledge to take a “20-30 minute survey on attacks on open-source supply chains”. The survey "addresses experts in the domain of software supply chain security. Its goal is (i) to validate a proposed taxonomy of attack vectors, developed based on real-world attacks and vulnerabilities, and (ii) to collect feedback regarding the usefulness and costs of different safeguards.”
    * If you’re willing to take the survey, please go here: [https://survey.opensourceunchained.eu/expertsurvey.html](https://survey.opensourceunchained.eu/expertsurvey.html)
* Kim: Maybe we should ask them to present to the WG (both Backstabber’s Knife Collection & taxonomy) - maybe invite other WG members to it?

# 20210712

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)

* CRob [Intel]
* Reed Loden (HackerOne)
* Anne Bertucio (Google)
* Paulo Flabiano Smorigo (Ubuntu/Canonical)
* Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)  

Meeting Agenda



* [CRob] - Follow-up on CVE Discussion
    * Any more questions to pre-load for the call with them?
    * Questions for the Board
    * Community issues with current CVE process (what isn’t working well)
    * What’s working well
* [CRob] - Continued discussion Vulnerability disclosures whitepaper (#88) -- gdoc strawman
    * [OpenSSF Vuln Disclosure WG Whitepaper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ggvl7_p7-tmieP5He1dSmRbndDz1CG2_BqNpk6ss6ks/edit#)
    * Proposed timeline for whitepaper:
        * [Optional -- recommend first draft of sections by Aug 4]
        * Paper sections ready for review Aug 18
        * Paper finalized Sept 1; sent for design layout
        * Draft of blog for paper launch reviewed Sept 7-10
        * Blog for paper launch finalized Sept 14
        * [optional LF media outreach Sept 16]
        * Published week of Sept 20
* [annebertucio@] - CVD guide (aka Recommendations section of whitepaper)
    * [https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide)
        * [CNCF TAG Security releasing new vuln disclosure guidance](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/pull/733), draws heavily from repo above 
        * [Corresponding WG issue](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/99)
    * Publishing an agreed upon v1 by mid-August reasonable?
        * Number of reviewers and approvers needed to adopt?
            * If want “OSSF endorsed,” needs to go through the Board
        * AI: CRob will write down governance for WG and propose how decisions will be made
        * AI: Anne will email mailing list (and put in slack)


# 20210628

Attendees: (Change colour or add your entry)

* CRob [Intel]
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Paulo Flabiano Smorigo (Ubuntu/Canonical)
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM)
* Eric Hatleback (CERT/CC)
* Ryan Haning (Microsoft)

Meeting Agenda



* [CRob] - Hello everyone.  Welcome newcomers.
    * Eric Hatleback (CERT) - works with Art Manion
    * Paulo (Canonical)
* [CRob] - LF’s Linux Security summit CFP is open until July 11.   Any group interest to put something together?
    * [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/linux-security-summit-north-america/program/cfp/?utm_content=167184933&utm_medium=social&utm_source=linkedin&hss_channel=lcp-208777](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/linux-security-summit-north-america/program/cfp/?utm_content=167184933&utm_medium=social&utm_source=linkedin&hss_channel=lcp-208777)
* CVD guide for OSS ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/99))
    * Fills “Recommendation” section of the whitepaper
    * [ Repo started](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide); please open issues, submit PRs, etc etc
        * Goal is that this is useful for project maintainers
    * Having this has been mentioned in many statements about OSSF’s work in response to the EO, so let’s move quickly -- is having an adopted v1 by the end of August (or sooner) reasonable?
    * Homework: Everyone please review the artifact! (CRob will send out an email reminding everyone to review it, including its URL). If there are other such resources, please let us know.
    * David W: CII Best Practices badge has a few statements. GitHub doesn’t support private reporting of vulnerabilities. One alternative is to use email with STARTTLS (hop-by-hop encryption) - many find PGP too hard, and hop-by-hop is good enough.
* [CRob] - Continued discussion Vulnerability disclosures whitepaper (#88) -- gdoc strawman
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ggvl7_p7-tmieP5He1dSmRbndDz1CG2_BqNpk6ss6ks/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ggvl7_p7-tmieP5He1dSmRbndDz1CG2_BqNpk6ss6ks/edit#)
* David W: I talked with Kris Britton a few days ago, he’s now leading work to improve automation of CVE reporting so that reporting can be much faster/easier.
* There’s interest in meeting with the CVE Board to discuss issues.

Meeting Notes:



* Any interest in having the CVE Board come talk to this group?
